DOCSP-45436 Field Behaviors page (#68)
mongodb/docs-mongoid: source/data-modeling/field-behaviors.txt

.. _mongoid-field-behaviors:

=========================
Customize Field Behaviors
=========================

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: customize, attributes, optimize, model, configure, code example

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to customize the behavior of fields in {+odm+} models.

Specify Default Values
----------------------

You can configure fields to have default values by using the ``default`` option.
Default field values can be either fixed or ``Proc`` values.

> The following example specifies a fixed default value for the ``fulfill_by``
> field:

Reviewer: In this code example, the field is `state` should this be updated or the should the code snippet be updated:
```suggestion
The following example specifies a fixed default value for the ``state``
field:
```

Author: Good catch, it should be `state`

      field :submitted_at, type: Time, default: ->{ Time.now }

You can set a default value that depends on the document's state by using the
``self`` keyword in a ``Proc`` instance. The following example sets the
``fulfill_by`` default value to depend on the state of the ``submitted_at``
field:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-field-default-self
   :end-before: # end-field-default-self

By default, {+odm+} applies ``Proc`` default values after setting and
initializing all other attributes. To apply the default before setting the other
attributes, set the ``pre_processed`` option to ``true``, as shown in the
following example:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-field-default-pre-processed
   :end-before: # end-field-default-pre-processed

.. tip::

   Always set the ``pre-processed`` option to ``true`` to set a
   default ``Proc`` value for the ``_id`` field.

Specify Storage Names
---------------------

You can specify a separate field name to store in the database, while still

> referring to the field by its original name in your application. This can be
> useful to save storage space, because MongoDB stores all field information along

Reviewer: [s] Can potentially edit this for brevity and avoiding extra words:
```suggestion
referring to the field by its original name in your application. This can save storage space, because MongoDB stores all field information along
```

   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-field-unalias
   :end-before: # end-field-unalias

You can also use ``unalias_attribute`` to remove the predefined ``id`` alias from the
``_id`` field. This can be used to store different values in the ``_id`` field
and an ``id`` field.

Field Redefinition
------------------

By default, {+odm+} allows you to redefine fields on a model. To raise an error
when a field is redefined, set the ``duplicate_fields_exception`` configuration
option in your ``mongoid.yml`` file to ``true``.

If the ``duplicate_fields_exception`` option is set to ``true``, you can still
redefine a specific field by setting the ``overwrite`` option to ``true`` when
you define the field. The following example defines the ``name`` field, and then
redefines the field by using the ``overwrite`` option:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-field-overwrite
   :end-before: # end-field-overwrite

Custom ID Field
---------------

By default, {+odm+} defines the ``_id`` field on documents to contain a
``BSON::ObjectId`` value that {+odm+} generates automatically. You can customize

> the type or the specify the default value of the ``_id`` field by specifying it in your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the type or specify the default value of the ``_id`` field by specifying it in your
```

model.

The following example creates a ``Band`` class with a custom ``_id`` field:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/field-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-custom-id
   :end-before: # end-custom-id

> You can omit the default value for the ``_id`` field. If you don't specify a
> default value for the field, {+odm+} persists the value without an ``_id``

Reviewer: Is this meant to be document? Was a little hard to parse.
```suggestion
You can omit the default value for the ``_id`` field. If you don't specify a
default value for the field, {+odm+} persists the document without an ``_id``
```

Author: Oops, yeah that should be document

> value. If the document is a top-level document, the MongoDB server automatically
> assigns an ``_id`` value to the document. However, if the document is an
> embedded document, the server does not assign an ``_id`` value. 
> 

Reviewer: [s] Suggestions for editing this a bit to improve readability: 
```suggestion
value. For top-level documents, the MongoDB server automatically
assigns an ``_id`` value. However, for embedded documents, the server does not assign an ``_id`` value. 

```
